1)MySQL

MySQL is the most popular open source SQL database. It is typically used for web application development, and often accessed using PHP.

The main advantages of MySQL are that it is easy to use, inexpensive, reliable (has been around since 1995), and has a large community of developers who can help answer questions.

Some of the disadvantages are that it has been known to suffer from poor performance when scaling, open source development has lagged since Oracle has taken control of MySQL, and it does not include some advanced features that developers may be used to.

2)PostgreSQL

PostgreSQL is an open source SQL database that is not controlled by any corporation. It is typically used for web application development.

PostgreSQL shares many of the same advantages of MySQL. It is easy to use, inexpensive, reliable and has a large community of developers. It also provides some additional features such as foreign key support without requiring complex configuration.

The main disadvantage of PostgreSQL is that it can be slower in performance than other databases such as MySQL. It is also slightly less popular than MySQL.

For more information about PostgreSQL including installation instructions, read this article.


4)SQL Server

Microsoft owns SQL Server. Like Oracle DB, the code is close sourced.

Large enterprise applications mostly use SQL Server.

Microsoft offers a free entry-level version called Express but can become very expensive as you scale your application.

SQLite

SQLite is a popular open source SQL database. It can store an entire database in a single file. One of the most significant advantages this provides is that all of the data can be stored locally without having to connect your database to a server.

SQLite is a popular choice for databases in cellphones, PDAs, MP3 players, set-top boxes, and other electronic gadgets. The SQL courses on Codecademy use SQLite.

For more info on SQLite, including installation instructions, read this article.



2.


SQlserver: is a self-contained, file-based, and fully open-source RDBMS known for its portability,
Advantages of SQLite :Small footprint,User-friendly,

my sql :MySQL was designed for speed and reliability, at the expense of full adherence to standard SQL. The MySQL developers continually work towards closer adherence to standard SQL, but it still lags behind other SQL implementations. It does, however, come with various SQL modes and extensions that bring it closer to compliance. Unlike applications using SQLite, applications using a MySQL database access it through a separate daemon process.
 Because the server process stands between the database and other applications,
 it allows for greater control over who has access to the database.

PostgreSQL:PostgreSQL, also known as Postgres, bills itself as “the most advanced open-source relational database in the world.”
 It was created with the goal of being highly extensible and standards compliant. PostgreSQL is an object-relational database,
 meaning that although it’s primarily a relational database it also includes features — like table inheritance and function overloading — that are more often associated with object databases.
